Q-1. Explain in brief what is node js?
Ans = 
1. Node.js is an free open source server environment which uses JavaScript on the server.
2. Node js can do - 
   A. Node.js can generate dynamic page content
   B. Node.js can create, open, read, write, delete, and close files on the server
   C. Node.js can collect form data
   D. Node.js can add, delete, modify data in your database

Q-2. How is node js non blocking?
Ans = 
1. The event loop is what allows Node js to perform non-blocking I/O operations despite the fact 
   that JavaScript is single-threaded. 
2. The loop, which runs on the same thread as the JavaScript code, grabs a task from the code and 
   executes it.

Q-3. What is throughput?
Ans = In data transmission, network throughput is the amount of data moved successfully from one place to another 
      in a given time period, and typically measured in bits per second (bps), as in megabits per second (Mbps) 
      or gigabits per second (Gbps).

Q-4. How is Node js having high IO throughput?
Ans =
1. If the processor has to regularly wait for data to arrive, the task is said to be I/O intensive. 
2. Node. js's asynchronous nature however makes it really good at I/O intensive tasks, as it can keep doing 
   other work while it waits for the data to arrive asynchronously.
3. Node. js is asynchronous and single-threaded. 
4. This means that all I/O operations don't block any other operations. 
5. It also means that you can send emails, read files, query the database, etc.

Q-5. What are CPU intensive tasks?
Ans = 
1. They are complex user actions that eat up more RAM. 
2. A few of such processes can shut down your server entirely. 
3. Naturally, you want to make sure that your app or website is 'smart' enough to handle different kinds of tasks, 
   for each individual user request.
4. Example: Sorting, search, graph traversal, matrix multiply are all CPU operations, a process is CPU-intensive 
   or not it depends on how much and how frequent are their execution.

Q-6. How can you end up blocking your main thread in node.js?
Ans = 
1. The Main Thread is where the browser does most of the work needed to display a page. 
2. If we keep the Main Thread blocked, it can't perform its crucial tasks. 
3. This leads to slow load times, unresponsive pages, and a bad user experience.

Q-7. What is an event loop?
Ans = 
1. In computer science, the event loop is a programming construct or design pattern that waits for and dispatches 
   events or messages in a program. 
2. The event loop works by making a request to some internal or external "event provider", then calls the relevant 
   event handler.

Q-8. What are different phases in event loop?
Ans = All the phases of event loop include: 
        1. Poll
        2. Check
        3. Close callbacks
        4. timers
        5. Pending callbacks
        6. idle, prepare

    1. The poll phase:
        - The poll phase handles all of the input/output operations we execute.
        - All the synchronous JavaScript code you write will be executed in the poll phase of the event loop

Q-9. What is process.tick?
Ans = 
1. Every time the event loop takes a full trip, we call it a tick. 
2. When we pass a function to process.nextTick() , we instruct the engine to invoke this function at the end of 
   the current operation, before the next event loop tick starts

Q-10. When can process.tick starve your event loop?
Ans = 
1. The code executed with the process.nextTick is the asynchronous code that we will get immediately after the 
   code in the current call stack is executed.
2. Executing long-running codes in the nextTickQueue can starve the execution of different phases of the event 
   loop’s iteration.

Q-11. What is the difference between setTimeout and setInterval?
Ans = 
1. The only difference is , setTimeout() triggers the expression only once while setInterval() keeps triggering 
   expression regularly after the given interval of time. (unless you tell it to stop).
2. To stop further calls, we should call clearInterval(timerId).

Q-12. How can you make a network request with http module from the backend?
Ans = 
1. First, we require the https standard Node module, which is available with Node.js installation. 
2. No need for a package.json file or any npm install --save to get this running.
3. We then call our JSONPlaceholder URL with the get method, which has a callback that provides the response 
   we have put in the res variable.

Q-13. How can you create your own events?
Ans = The below steps are followed in order to create one using a new Event.
        1. We create an event using the Event constructor.
        2. We listen to this event using the addEventListener() method.
        3. We trigger or dispatch the event using element. dispatchEvent(eventName) method.
        4. A custom Event named start has now been created.

Q-14. What is a cluster?
Ans = 
1. A computer cluster is a set of computers that work together so that they can be viewed as a single system. 
2. Unlike grid computers, computer clusters have each node set to perform the same task, controlled and scheduled 
   by software. 

Q-15. How does your Node.js application handle scale? Elaborate
Ans = 
1. Scalability in Node.js is not an afterthought. It’s something that’s baked into the core of the runtime. 
2. Node is named Node to emphasize the idea that a Node application should comprise multiple small distributed 
   nodes that communicate with each other.
3. Node’s cluster module not only provides an out-of-the-box solution to utilizing the full CPU power of a 
   machine, but it also helps with increasing the availability of your Node processes and provides an option to 
   restart the whole application with a zero downtime.
        1 — Cloning
        * The easiest thing to do to scale a big application is to clone it multiple times and have each cloned 
          instance handle part of the workload (with a load balancer, for example). 
        * This does not cost a lot in term of development time and it’s highly effective. 
        * This strategy is the minimum you should do and Node.js has the built-in module, cluster, to make it 
          easier for you to implement the cloning strategy on a single server.

        2 — Decomposing
        * We can also scale an application by decomposing it based on functionalities and services. 
        * This means having multiple, different applications with different code bases and sometimes with their 
          own dedicated databases and User Interfaces.
        * This strategy is commonly associated with the term Microservice, where micro indicates that those 
          services should be as small as possible, but in reality, the size of the service is not what’s important 
          but rather the enforcement of loose coupling and high cohesion between services. 
        * The implementation of this strategy is often not easy and could result in long-term unexpected problems, 
          but when done right the advantages are great.

        3 — Splitting
        * We can also split the application into multiple instances where each instance is responsible for only a 
          part of the application’s data. 
        * This strategy is often named horizontal partitioning, or sharding, in databases. Data partitioning 
          requires a lookup step before each operation to determine which instance of the application to use. 
        * For example, maybe we want to partition our users based on their country or language. We need to do a 
          lookup of that information first.

Q-16. What is the difference between readFile and readFileSync?
Ans = 
1. In fs. readFile() method, we can read a file in a non-blocking asynchronous way, but in fs. readFileSync() 
   method, we can read files in a synchronous way, i.e. we are telling node.js to block other parallel process 
   and do the current file reading process.

Q-17. What are CORS? How do you configure them? Why do you need them?
Ans = Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) is an HTTP-header based mechanism that allows a server to indicate any 
      origins (domain, scheme, or port) other than its own from which a browser should permit loading resources.

Q-18. What is rate limiting?
Ans = In computer networks, rate limiting is used to control the rate of requests sent or received by a network 
      interface controller. 

Q-19. How does middlewares work in express?
Ans = 
1. Middleware functions are functions that have access to the request object ( req ), the response object 
   ( res ), and the next function in the application's request-response cycle. 
2. The next function is a function in the Express router which, when invoked, executes the middleware succeeding 
   the current middleware.

Q-20. What is the difference between Encryption and Hashing?
Ans = 
1. Since encryption is two-way, the data can be decrypted so it is readable again. 
2. Hashing, on the other hand, is one-way, meaning the plaintext is scrambled into a unique digest, through the 
   use of a salt, that cannot be decrypted.

Q-21. What is the difference between https and http?
Ans = 
1. HTTPS is HTTP with encryption. 
2. The only difference between the two protocols is that HTTPS uses TLS (SSL) to encrypt normal HTTP requests 
   and responses. 
3. As a result, HTTPS is far more secure than HTTP. 
4. A website that uses HTTP has http:// in its URL, while a website that uses HTTPS has https://.

Q-22. What is TLS?
Ans = Transport Layer Security, the successor of the now-deprecated Secure Sockets Layer, is a cryptographic 
      protocol designed to provide communications security over a computer network.

Q-23. What is AES?
Ans = 
1. The Advanced Encryption Standard, also known by its original name Rijndael, is a specification for the 
   encryption of electronic data established by the U.S. National Institute of Standards and Technology in 2001.
2. The AES engine encrypts the plain text (source data) into cipher text (encrypted data) and sends it to the 
   NAND flash for storage. 
3. Inversely, if the host wants to retrieve data from the storage device, the AES engine decrypts the cipher 
   text in the NAND flash, and then transmits data to the host as plain text.

Q-24. What is salting? Where do we store salt?
Ans = 
1. A salt is added to the hashing process to force their uniqueness, increase their complexity without increasing 
   user requirements, and to mitigate password attacks like hash tables
2. In practice, we store the salt in cleartext along with the hash in our database.

Q-25. What is the difference between Authorisation and Authentication?
Ans = Simply put, authentication is the process of verifying who someone is, whereas authorization is the process 
      of verifying what specific applications, files, and data a user has access to.
   